README.md, before:

# RetroArch module for hakchi

This is a hakchi/hakchi2 module which adds libretro cores and RetroArch front-end to your NES Mini.

It will automatically detect unsupported NES games and run them instead of the default emulator. Save states will work as usual.

It can also run games for other consoles. This pack already contains the following cores:
- fceumm (Famicom/Nintendo Entertainment System, many mappers, UNIF support)
- nestopia (Famicom/Nintendo Entertainment System, Famicom Disk System)

The following cores are available as additional modules (in core_modules folder):
- snes9x2010 (Super Famicom/Super Nintendo)
- gambatte_libretro (Game Boy, Game Boy Color)
- mgba (Game Boy Advance)
- glupen64 (Nintendo 64)
- genesis_plus_gx (Sega Master System, Genesis/Mega Drive, Game Gear)
- stella (Atari 2600)
- mednafen_pce_fast (PC Engine/Turbografx 16)
- fb_alpha and fb_alpha_cps2 (various arcade machines)
- picodrive (Sega Master System, Genesis/Mega Drive, Game Gear, Sega 32X)

Extra RetroArch modules and modules created by other users (in core_modules_extra folder):
- mupen64plus (Nintendo 64)
- snes9x2005 (Super Famicom/Super Nintendo)
- caprice32 (Amstrad CPC), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- fbalpha2012_neogeo (Neo-Geo), provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- fuse (ZX Spectrum), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- dosbox (MS-DOS), provided by 1lokolo1/nesito  and asper
- mame2000 (various arcades machines), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- mame2003 (various arcades machines), provided by asper
- mednafen_ngp (Neo Geo Pocket), provided by asper


## How to use this

1. Go to "releases" tab and download the newest release.zip 
2. Unpack release.zip anywhere you want
3. Copy retroarch.hmod and the cores you want (.hmod files from cores and extra_cores folders) to user_mods directory of Hakchi2.
4. Install the modules (all modules can be installed in one go) via Hakchi2's Modules menu.
5. Add the games as usual

Please note:
- To add RetroArch shortcut to NES Mini's shell, drag-and-drop CloverApp.zip to Hakchi2
- To make your own RetroArch modules, use the structure from libretro_core_template.zip. Use exisiting modules as a reference.
- If the file extension of your game is not supported by Hakchi2, you may need to change the path in command line arguments (in Hakchi2's game options) to make it point to the corresponding core
- To use RetroArch for any NES game, just add "--retroarch" to command line arguments. If you need to load the game with specific NES core, use "--retroarch --core fceumm" to use FCEUmm for this game or "--retroarch --core nestopia" to use Nestopia
- To use Nestopia instead of FCEUmm, install use_nestopia.hmod module
- To use PicoDrive for all Genesis/Mega Drive games instead of Genesis Plus GX, install use_picodrive.hmod module. Make sure that picodrive module is installed before installing use_picodrive!
- To use SNES9x2005 for all SNES games instead of SNES9x2010, install use_snes9x2005.hmod module. Make sure that snes9x2005 module is installed before installing use_snes9x2005!
- To use Mupen64Plus for all N64 games instead of GLupeN64, install use_mupen64plus.hmod module. Make sure that mupen64plus module is installed before installing use_mupen64plus!
- You can re-enable bilinear filtering in RetroArch's settings (Settings —> Video —> Bilinear Filtering)

## Additional information

Executables and arguments for all available cores:

        - /bin/retroarch-clover <core> <rom> <clover_args>
          runs RetroArch with specified core,
          designed for executing from clover shell, 
          so it parses all clover arguments (saves, aspect ratio, etc.)
        - /bin/retroarch-mini [core] [rom] [args]
          runs RetroArch directly, without clover intergration
        - /bin/retroarch
          RetroArch binary
        - /bin/nes <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fceumm" core or "nestopia" core
        - /bin/gb <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "gambatte" core
        - /bin/gbc <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "gambatte" core
        - /bin/gba <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mgba" core
        - /bin/md <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/sms <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/gg <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/32x <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "picodrive" core
        - /bin/snes <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2010" core or "snes9x2005" core
        - /bin/snes05 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2005" core
        - /bin/snes10 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2010" core if snes9x2005 is installed as a main core
        - /bin/n64 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "glupen64" core or "mupen64plus" core
        - /bin/n64p <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mupen64plus" core
        - /bin/n64g <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "glupen64" core if mupen64plus is installed as a main core
        - /bin/a26 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "stella" core
        - /bin/pce <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mednafen_pce_fast" core
        - /bin/fba <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fb_alpha" core
        - /bin/cps2 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fb_alpha_cps2" core
        - /bin/neo <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fbalpha2012_neogeo" core
        - /bin/cpc <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "caprice32" core
        - /bin/zx <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fuse" core
        - /bin/dosbox <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "dosbox" core
        - /bin/mame2000 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mame2000" core
        - /bin/mame2003 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mame2003" core
        - /bin/ngp <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mednafen_ngp" core

		  
## Known issues

- Nintendo 64 and CP System II save-states are not working, battery backups work fine
- Default CRT filter is not working, scanlines shader added instead but it's not working with all systems.
- It's recommended to turn your NES Mini off from shell, not during the game

## Credits

NES Mini port by madmonkey

NES Mini shell integration by Cluster

Various additions, tweaks and fixes by pcm720

RetroArch/libretro project: https://www.libretro.com
Lakka project: www.lakka.tv

(c) 2017

Commit message:

Added module containing Monochrome theme assets for XMB menu driver

README.md, after:

# RetroArch module for hakchi

This is a hakchi/hakchi2 module which adds libretro cores and RetroArch front-end to your NES Mini.

It will automatically detect unsupported NES games and run them instead of the default emulator. Save states will work as usual.

It can also run games for other consoles. This pack already contains the following cores:
- fceumm (Famicom/Nintendo Entertainment System, many mappers, UNIF support)
- nestopia (Famicom/Nintendo Entertainment System, Famicom Disk System)

The following cores are available as additional modules (in core_modules folder):
- snes9x2010 (Super Famicom/Super Nintendo)
- gambatte_libretro (Game Boy, Game Boy Color)
- mgba (Game Boy Advance)
- glupen64 (Nintendo 64)
- genesis_plus_gx (Sega Master System, Genesis/Mega Drive, Game Gear)
- stella (Atari 2600)
- mednafen_pce_fast (PC Engine/Turbografx 16)
- fb_alpha and fb_alpha_cps2 (various arcade machines)
- picodrive (Sega Master System, Genesis/Mega Drive, Game Gear, Sega 32X)

Extra RetroArch modules and modules created by other users (in core_modules_extra folder):
- mupen64plus (Nintendo 64)
- snes9x2005 (Super Famicom/Super Nintendo)
- caprice32 (Amstrad CPC), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- fbalpha2012_neogeo (Neo-Geo), provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- fuse (ZX Spectrum), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- dosbox (MS-DOS), provided by 1lokolo1/nesito  and asper
- mame2000 (various arcades machines), compiled and fixed by D_Skywalk, provided by 1lokolo1/nesito
- mame2003 (various arcades machines), provided by asper
- mednafen_ngp (Neo Geo Pocket), provided by asper


## How to use this

1. Go to "releases" tab and download the newest release.zip 
2. Unpack release.zip anywhere you want
3. Copy retroarch.hmod and the cores you want (.hmod files from cores and extra_cores folders) to user_mods directory of Hakchi2.
4. Install the modules (all modules can be installed in one go) via Hakchi2's Modules menu.
5. Add the games as usual

Please note:
- To add RetroArch shortcut to NES Mini's shell, drag-and-drop CloverApp.zip to Hakchi2
- To make your own RetroArch modules, use the structure from libretro_core_template.zip. Use exisiting modules as a reference.
- If the file extension of your game is not supported by Hakchi2, you may need to change the path in command line arguments (in Hakchi2's game options) to make it point to the corresponding core
- To use RetroArch for any NES game, just add "--retroarch" to command line arguments. If you need to load the game with specific NES core, use "--retroarch --core fceumm" to use FCEUmm for this game or "--retroarch --core nestopia" to use Nestopia
- To use Nestopia instead of FCEUmm, install use_nestopia.hmod module
- To use PicoDrive for all Genesis/Mega Drive games instead of Genesis Plus GX, install use_picodrive.hmod module. Make sure that picodrive module is installed before installing use_picodrive!
- To use SNES9x2005 for all SNES games instead of SNES9x2010, install use_snes9x2005.hmod module. Make sure that snes9x2005 module is installed before installing use_snes9x2005!
- To use Mupen64Plus for all N64 games instead of GLupeN64, install use_mupen64plus.hmod module. Make sure that mupen64plus module is installed before installing use_mupen64plus!
- You can re-enable bilinear filtering in RetroArch's settings (Settings —> Video —> Bilinear Filtering)
- If you want to use RetroArch's XMB UI instead of RGUI, install xmb_assets.hmod and change Menu Driver in Settings —> Driver —> Menu Driver to "xmb"

## Additional information

Executables and arguments for all available cores:

        - /bin/retroarch-clover <core> <rom> <clover_args>
          runs RetroArch with specified core,
          designed for executing from clover shell, 
          so it parses all clover arguments (saves, aspect ratio, etc.)
        - /bin/retroarch-mini [core] [rom] [args]
          runs RetroArch directly, without clover intergration
        - /bin/retroarch
          RetroArch binary
        - /bin/nes <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fceumm" core or "nestopia" core
        - /bin/gb <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "gambatte" core
        - /bin/gbc <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "gambatte" core
        - /bin/gba <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mgba" core
        - /bin/md <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/sms <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/gg <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "genesis_plus_gx" core
        - /bin/32x <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "picodrive" core
        - /bin/snes <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2010" core or "snes9x2005" core
        - /bin/snes05 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2005" core
        - /bin/snes10 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "snes9x2010" core if snes9x2005 is installed as a main core
        - /bin/n64 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "glupen64" core or "mupen64plus" core
        - /bin/n64p <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mupen64plus" core
        - /bin/n64g <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "glupen64" core if mupen64plus is installed as a main core
        - /bin/a26 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "stella" core
        - /bin/pce <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mednafen_pce_fast" core
        - /bin/fba <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fb_alpha" core
        - /bin/cps2 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fb_alpha_cps2" core
        - /bin/neo <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fbalpha2012_neogeo" core
        - /bin/cpc <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "caprice32" core
        - /bin/zx <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "fuse" core
        - /bin/dosbox <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "dosbox" core
        - /bin/mame2000 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mame2000" core
        - /bin/mame2003 <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mame2003" core
        - /bin/ngp <rom> <clover_args>
          runs "mednafen_ngp" core

		  
## Known issues

- Nintendo 64 and CP System II save-states are not working, battery backups work fine
- Default CRT filter is not working, scanlines shader added instead but it's not working with all systems.
- It's recommended to turn your NES Mini off from shell, not during the game

## Credits

NES Mini port by madmonkey

NES Mini shell integration by Cluster

Various additions, tweaks and fixes by pcm720

RetroArch/libretro project: https://www.libretro.com
Lakka project: www.lakka.tv

(c) 2017
